1. Define file, file mode, text file, binary file, and file handling. 
    
    file: it is the structure where information is permanently stored on the computer. Data is not lost even if the program is closed.

    file mode: file mode determines how a file will be opened. (reading, writing...)

    text file: file that contains only readable characters.  (.txt files)

    binary file: these are files where information is stored in bits that are not human readable. (images, videos, program files)

    file handling: File handling refers to creating ("x"), opening, reading("r"), writing("w"), and closing files within a program.


2. In you own words explain why do need file handling in programming?
   
    *it enables working with text files, binary files, and logging mechanisms for data storage, retrieval, and manipulation. it also ensures that we do not lose data.



3. Maintain your understanding to explain the difference between
   a. ‘w’ and ‘a’

	*The "w" mode in file opening is used for writing data to a file but "a" mode in file opening is used for appending data to a file. in "w" mode if the file exist python will truncate existing data and overwrite in the file but in the "a" mode the data in the file is retained and new data being written will be appended to the end of the file. 


   b. Text file and Binary file

      *Text files stores data in a format that we can read. but binary files stores information in the 1 and 0 forms.(humans cant read)
      *Text files can store only plain text but Binary files can store auido, text, image in a single file. 
 


4. Still using your own words describe what happen when you open a file using ‘r’ mode

     *"r" mode opens file just for reading. we can no write in this mode and if the file does not exist it will give error.  


5. Write a program that:
   a. Create a text file named cmp142
   b. Write content into it and close it

	with open("cmp142.txt", "w") as file:
    f.write("im creating this file for my asignment.")



6. Based on the scenario, a programmer user input in variables only. When the program ends, all data is lost.

   a. What is the main problem in this situation?
   
      *data is stored temporarily so it will be dissappears when the program close. 

   b. How does file handling solve this problem?
        
      *file handling solves the problem by saving data to a file, so the information does not disappear when the program end  



7. Design a small program that:
   a. Asks the user to enter their name and age
   b. Saves this information into a file users.txt
   c. Then reads all saved users from the file and displays them

Conditions:
Use (read/write/append) file operations, include comments in the code, and use proper variable naming.



{Asking user for their name and age} 
name = input("Enter your name: ")
age = input("Enter your age: ")

{Saving the data into users.txt}
with open("users.txt", "a") as f:
    f.write(name + " - " + age )

{Reading and displaying all saved users}
print("Saved users:")
with open("users.txt", "r") as f:
    print(f.read())



8. Assume you are creating a system to store hundreds of student records.
   Write a short paragraph:
   a. Should the program use “w” mode or “a” mode to save scores?
   b. Justify your answer by comparing the consequences of each.

   *if we choose "w" mode the file is deleted every time the program is run we lost all old students but "a" mode protects the old information and adding the new students to the end of the file.









